--- Day 23: Category Six ---
----------------------------

The droids have finished repairing as much of the ship as they can.
Their
[report]{title="If you don't at least exhale sharply through your nose after reading this joke, we probably can't be friends."}
indicates that this was a *Category 6* disaster - not because it was
that bad, but because it destroyed the stockpile of [Category
6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category_6_cable) network cables as
well as most of the ship's network infrastructure.

You'll need to *rebuild the network from scratch*.

The computers on the network are standard [Intcode](9) computers that
communicate by sending *packets* to each other. There are `50` of them
in total, each running a copy of the same *Network Interface Controller*
(NIC) software (your puzzle input). The computers have *network
addresses* `0` through `49`; when each computer boots up, it will
request its network address via a single input instruction. Be sure to
give each computer a unique network address.

Once a computer has received its network address, it will begin doing
work and communicating over the network by sending and receiving
*packets*. All packets contain *two values* named `X` and `Y`. Packets
sent to a computer are queued by the recipient and read in the order
they are received.

To *send* a packet to another computer, the NIC will use *three output
instructions* that provide the *destination address* of the packet
followed by its `X` and `Y` values. For example, three output
instructions that provide the values `10`, `20`, `30` would send a
packet with `X=20` and `Y=30` to the computer with address `10`.

To *receive* a packet from another computer, the NIC will use an *input
instruction*. If the incoming packet queue is *empty*, provide `-1`.
Otherwise, provide the `X` value of the next packet; the computer will
then use a second input instruction to receive the `Y` value for the
same packet. Once both values of the packet are read in this way, the
packet is removed from the queue.

Note that these input and output instructions never
[block](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blocking_(computing)).
Specifically, output instructions do not wait for the sent packet to be
received - the computer might send multiple packets before receiving
any. Similarly, input instructions do not wait for a packet to arrive -
if no packet is waiting, input instructions should receive `-1`.

Boot up all `50` computers and attach them to your network. *What is the
`Y` value of the first packet sent to address `255`?*

To begin, [get your puzzle input](23/input).

Answer:

You can also [\[Share[on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%22Category+Six%22+%2D+Day+23+%2D+Advent+of+Code+2019&url=https%3A%2F%2Fadventofcode%2Ecom%2F2019%2Fday%2F23&related=ericwastl&hashtags=AdventOfCode)
[Mastodon](javascript:void(0);)]{.share-content}\]]{.share} this puzzle.
